docs(enterprise): Add IdP delegation documentation [PLAT-4827] (#1416)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-enterprise_docs/enterprise/configuration/authentication/idp-delegation/group-catalog/overview.md

---
title: "Manage your IdP group catalog"
description: "Populate Seqera with your IdP's groups using SCIM push or manual entry."
date: "2026-05-12"
tags: [sso, scim, idp-delegation, administration, enterprise]
---

> Seqera maintains a per-organization catalog of identity provider (IdP) groups. The catalog populates the **IdP Group** dropdown on the team form, so organization owners can select a group when delegating a team. The catalog is independent of user activity and groups appear as soon as they're synced or entered, before any user has signed in.

Reviewer: @justinegeffen The group dropdown on team form (team edit page or team create page) has been postponed and for now the only place where you can do this IdP group <-> team assignation is on the group mapping page, we might need to change this.

Use the table below to choose the path that fits your IdP.

| IdP | Recommended path | Setup guide |
|-----|------------------|-------------|
| Okta | SCIM push | [SCIM provisioning with Okta](./scim-okta) |
| Entra ID | SCIM push | [SCIM provisioning with Entra ID](./scim-entra-id) |
| Google Workspace | Manual entry | [Manual entry for Google Workspace](./manual-google-workspace) |
| Keycloak | Manual entry | [Manual entry for Keycloak](./manual-keycloak) |
| Other | SCIM push if your IdP supports SCIM 2.0 group provisioning; otherwise manual entry. | — |

## SCIM push

If your IdP supports SCIM 2.0 group provisioning, Platform exposes a per-organization SCIM endpoint that the IdP can push to. Group create, rename, and delete events flow through automatically, and the catalog stays in sync without administrator intervention.

To set up SCIM:

> 1. Open **Organization settings** and select **Manage single sign-on**, then **Group mapping**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open **Organization settings** then **Group mapping**.
```

2. Copy the **SCIM endpoint URL** and the generated **bearer token**.
3. Configure these values in your IdP's SCIM provisioning settings.

> 4. Trigger an initial sync from the IdP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Trigger an initial sync from the IdP or wait until the IdP performs an scheduled sync.
```

> After the sync completes, the catalog displays every group your IdP shared, and the **IdP Group** drop-down menu on the team form is populated.

Reviewer: Here again, not in the team form, but in the group catalog page (org settings)

Reviewer 2: unresolving this comment because the problem is still there

:::caution

> Treat the SCIM bearer token like a password. It grants write access to your organization's group catalog. If the token is compromised, rotate it immediately using **Generate new token** in the **Group mapping** panel. The previous token is revoked atomically.

Reviewer: And if we want to be more specific, this would be in 'SCIM connection' card, inside group mapping page/panel.

```suggestion
Treat the SCIM bearer token like a password. It grants write access to your organization's group catalog. If the token is compromised, rotate it immediately using **Rotate** in the **Group mapping** panel. The previous token is revoked atomically.
```

:::

## Manual entry

If your IdP doesn't support SCIM group sync, populate the catalog by entering group identifiers manually. The value to enter depends on your IdP. See the per-IdP guides for the format and where to find it.

To add a group manually:

> 1. Open **Organization settings** and select **Manage single sign-on**, then **Group mapping**.

Reviewer: This is placed under its own card/menu, not under single sign-on (that was initial intention/design, but changed down the road). Same for other similar mentions in the doc, will try to highlight them.
```suggestion
1. Open **Organization settings** and select **Group mapping**.
```

> 2. Select **Add group manually**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select **Add manual group**.
```

Reviewer 2: unresolving comment because the problem is still there

> 3. Enter the group identifier exactly as it appears in your IdP's `groups` claim. The form links to per-IdP guidance.

Reviewer: Note that you can already map this group to a team at the moment you're creating it

Reviewer 2: > map this group to a team at the moment you're creating it

(The moment you're creating the group)

> The form links to per-IdP guidance.

The form does not include per-IdP links atm

4. Select **Save**.

> To delete a manually-entered group, select **Delete** on its row. If any delegated team references the group, its members are immediately purged and a warning indicates that the team has lost its source of membership.

Reviewer 2: The "orphaned teams" alert is left out of the scope for this release

```suggestion
To delete a manually-entered group, select **Delete** on its row. If any delegated team references the group, its members are immediately purged.
```

Reviewer 2: problem persists, unresolving

:::info[Other identity providers]
SCIM-based provisioning is supported for Okta and Microsoft Entra ID. With these providers, group membership syncs automatically, including lifecycle events (joiners, movers, leavers).

Other OIDC or SAML identity providers can authenticate users through Auth0, but group membership doesn't sync automatically. An admin must update memberships in Seqera as users join, move, or leave.

If you use Google Workspace, Keycloak, Ping, OneLogin, or another OIDC/SAML provider and want to delegate team membership, contact your Seqera account team to discuss your setup.
:::

## SCIM push

If your IdP supports SCIM 2.0 group provisioning, Platform exposes a per-organization SCIM endpoint that the IdP can push to. Group create, rename, and delete events flow through automatically, and the catalog stays in sync without administrator intervention.

To set up SCIM:

1. Open **Organization settings > Group mapping**.
2. Copy the **SCIM endpoint URL** and the generated **bearer token**.
3. Configure these values in your IdP's SCIM provisioning settings.
4. Trigger an initial sync from the IdP or wait until the IdP performs an scheduled sync.

> After the sync completes, the catalog displays every group your IdP shared, and the **IdP Group** drop-down menu on the team form is populated.

Author: ```suggestion
After the sync completes, the catalog displays every group your IdP shared, and the **Linked team** drop-down menu on **Group mapping > IdP groups** is populated.
```

---
title: "Manage your IdP group catalog"
description: "Populate Seqera with your IdP's groups using SCIM push or manual entry."
date: "2026-05-12"
tags: [sso, scim, idp-delegation, administration, enterprise]
---

> Seqera maintains a per-organization catalog of identity provider (IdP) groups. The catalog is independent of user activity and groups appear as soon as they're synced or entered, before any user has signed in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Seqera maintains a per-organization catalog of identity provider (IdP) groups. Groups appear in the catalog as soon as they're synced from the IdP or added manually. They don't depend on any user having signed in.
```

Use the table below to choose the path that fits your IdP.

| IdP | Recommended path | Setup guide |
|-----|------------------|-------------|
| Okta | SCIM push | [SCIM provisioning with Okta](./scim-okta) |
| Entra ID | SCIM push | [SCIM provisioning with Entra ID](./scim-entra-id) |

:::info
Other identity providers

SCIM provisioning is officially supported with Okta and Microsoft Entra ID. Any OIDC or SAML identity provider can authenticate users through Auth0, but group membership won't sync automatically and lifecycle events (joiners, movers, leavers) need to be handled manually in Seqera.

If you use Google Workspace, Keycloak, Ping, OneLogin, or another OIDC/SAML provider and want to delegate team membership, contact your Seqera account team to discuss your setup.

> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:::info[Other identity providers]
SCIM-based provisioning is supported for Okta and Microsoft Entra ID. With these providers, group membership syncs automatically, including lifecycle events (joiners, movers, leavers).

Other OIDC or SAML identity providers can authenticate users through Auth0, but group membership doesn't sync automatically. An admin must update memberships in Seqera as users join, move, or leave.

If you use Google Workspace, Keycloak, Ping, OneLogin, or another OIDC/SAML provider and want to delegate team membership, contact your Seqera account team to discuss your setup.
:::
```
I found this unclear, please check meaning is retained. Note that even if the content is incorrect, I've moved the title to be the title of the admonition.

To set up SCIM:

1. Open **Organization settings > Group mapping**.
2. Copy the **SCIM endpoint URL** and the generated **bearer token**.
3. Configure these values in your IdP's SCIM provisioning settings.
4. Trigger an initial sync from the IdP or wait until the IdP performs an scheduled sync.

After the sync completes, the catalog displays every group your IdP shared, and the **IdP Group** drop-down menu on the team form is populated.

:::caution
Treat the SCIM bearer token like a password. It grants write access to your organization's group catalog. If the token is compromised, rotate it immediately using **Rotate** in the **Group mapping** panel. The previous token is revoked atomically.
:::

## Manual entry

1. Open **Organization settings** and select **Group mapping**.
2. Select **Add manual group**.

To add a group manually:

To delete a manually-entered group, select **Delete** on its row. If any delegated team references the group, its members are immediately purged.
2. Select **Add group manually**.
3. Enter the group identifier exactly as it appears in your IdP's `groups` claim.

> 4. Select **Save**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add a group manually:

1. Open **Organization settings** and select **Group mapping**.
2. Select **Add group manually**.
3. Enter the group identifier exactly as it appears in your IdP's `groups` claim.
4. Select **Save**.
```
Please check this is correct.

There were two steps:
- Select **Add group manually**.
- Select **Add manual group**.

And the text below was injected.

To delete a manually-entered group, select **Delete** on its row. If any delegated team references the group, its members are immediately purged and a warning indicates that the team has lost its source of membership.

:::info

> A manually-entered group is automatically promoted to SCIM-managed if your IdP later pushes the same group via SCIM. The promotion happens in place; the catalog row is reused, and any delegated teams that reference it continue to work without interruption. After promotion, the row's lifecycle is fully driven by SCIM, and the manual **Delete** action is no longer available; the row is removed when your IdP issues a SCIM `DELETE`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A manually-entered group is automatically promoted to SCIM-managed if your IdP later pushes the same group via SCIM. The promotion happens in place. The catalog row is reused, and any delegated teams that reference it continue to work without interruption. After promotion, the row's lifecycle is fully driven by SCIM, and the manual **Delete** action is no longer available. The row is removed when your IdP issues a SCIM `DELETE`.
```

:::

## Remove catalog entry

When a group is removed from the catalog, by SCIM `DELETE`, manual deletion, or IdP-side rename detection, the following happens asynchronously:

- The catalog row is removed.

> - Every delegated team that referenced the group has its delegation-driven members purged. The team's other settings — name, workspace assignments, role — are preserved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Every delegated team that referenced the group has its delegation-driven members purged. The team's other settings (name, workspace assignments, role) are preserved.
```

> - An orphaned-team warning appears in the **Group mapping** panel, listing the affected teams. To restore the team's membership, set its **IdP Group** field to a different group, or clear the field to convert the team back to manual management.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- An orphaned-team warning appears in the **Group mapping** panel, listing the affected teams.

:::tip
To restore the team's membership, set its **IdP Group** field to a different group, or clear the field to convert the team back to manual management.
:::
```

> - An orphaned-team warning appears in the **Group mapping** panel, listing the affected teams. To restore the team's membership, set its **IdP Group** field to a different group, or clear the field to convert the team back to manual management.

Reviewer 2: The orphaned team warning is not implemented for this release, it is out of the scope. But, the rest is correct.
```suggestion
- If a group is deleted on the IdP side, the team's membership can be reset by setting its **IdP Group** field to a different group, or clearing the field to convert the team back to manual management.
```

## Multi-organization deployments

> On Enterprise instances that host more than one organization, group display names must be unique across all organizations on the instance. If you add a group that conflicts with another organization's catalog entry, this will fail with a `409 Conflict`. See [Multi-organization routing](../multi-org-routing) for the full rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On Enterprise instances that host more than one organization, group display names must be unique across all organizations on the instance. If you add a group that conflicts with another organization's catalog entry, it will fail with a `409 Conflict`. See [Multi-organization routing](../multi-org-routing) for more information.
```
